Microsoft isn't evil, they just make really crappy operating systems.
Software is like sex: it's better when it's free.
When you say 'I wrote a program that crashed Windows,' people just stare at you blankly and say 'Hey, I got those with the system, for free.'
See, you not only have to be a good coder to create a system like Linux, you have to be a sneaky bastard too.
The Linux philosophy is 'Laugh in the face of danger'. Oops. Wrong One. 'Do it yourself'. Yes, that's it.
My name is Linus, and I am your God.
A consumer doesn't take anything away: he doesn't actually consume anything. Giving the same thing to a thousand consumers is not really any more expensive than giving it to just one.
Any program is only as good as it is useful.
Artists usually don't make all that much money, and they often keep their artistic hobby despite the money rather than due to it.
Before the commercial ventures, Linux tended to be rather hard to set up, because most of the developers were motivated mainly by their own interests.
Finnish companies tend to be very traditional, not taking many risks. Silicon Valley is completely different: people here really live on the edge.
Helsinki isn't all that bad. It's a very nice city, and it's cold really only in wintertime.
Helsinki may not be as cold as you make it out to be, but California is still a lot nicer. I don't remember the last time I couldn't walk around in shorts all day.
I do get my pizzas paid for by Linux indirectly.
I don't expect to go hungry if I decide to leave the University. Resume: Linux looks pretty good in many places.
I don't try to be a threat to MicroSoft, mainly because I don't really see MS as competition. Especially not Windows-the goals of Linux and Windows are simply so different.
I like to think that I've been a good manager. That fact has been very instrumental in making Linux a successful product.
I never felt that the naming issue was all that important, but I was obviously wrong, judging by how many people felt. I tell people to call it just plain Linux and nothing more.
I try to avoid long-range plans and visions - that way I can more easily deal with anything new that comes up.
I used to be interested in Windows NT, but the more I see it, the more it looks like traditional Windows with a stabler kernel. I don't find anything technically interesting there.
I very seldom worry about other systems. I concentrate pretty fully on just making Linux the best I can.
I've been employed by the University of Helsinki, and they've been perfectly happy to keep me employed and doing Linux.
I've been very happy with the commercial Linux CD-ROM vendors linux Red Hat.
I've never regretted not making Linux shareware: I really don't like the pay for use binary shareware programs.
In many cases, the user interface to a program is the most important part for a commercial company: whether the programs works correctly or not seems to be secondary.
In my opinion MS is a lot better at making money than it is at making good operating systems.
Linux has definitely made a lot of sense even in a purely materialistic sense.
Making Linux GPL'd was definitely the best thing I ever did.
Most good programmers do programming not because they expect to get paid or get adulation by the public, but because it is fun to program.
Non-technical questions sometimes don't have an answer at all.
People enjoy the interaction on the Internet, and the feeling of belonging to a group that does something interesting: that's how some software projects are born.
Programmers are in the enviable position of not only getting to do what they want to, but because the end result is so important they get paid to do it. There are other professions like that, but not that many.
Shareware tends to combine the worst of commercial software with the worst of free software.
That's what makes Linux so good: you put in something, and that effort multiplies. It's a positive feedback cycle.
The cyberspace earnings I get from Linux come in the format of having a Network of people that know me and trust me, and that I can depend on in return.
The fame and reputation part came later, and never was much of a motivator, although it did enable me to work without feeling guilty about neglecting my studies.
The thing with Linux is that the developers themselves are actually customers too: that has always been an important part of Linux.
There are lots of Linux users who don't care how the kernel works, but only want to use it. That is a tribute to how good Linux is.
What commercialism has brought into Linux has been the incentive to make a good distribution that is easy to use and that has all the packaging issues worked out.
When it comes to software, I much prefer free software, because I have very seldom seen a program that has worked well enough for my needs, and having sources available can be a life-saver.
You won't get sued for anticompetitive behavior.
Intelligence is the ability to avoid doing work, yet getting the work done.
If Microsoft ever does applications for Linux it means I've won.
The memory management on the PowerPC can be used to frighten small children.
Turtles are very stable and have been around forever. But they have problems adapting. When humans came along, turtles came under serious threat. Biodiversity is good, and I think it is good in technology as well.
Hey, I'm a good software engineer, but I'm not exactly known for my fashion sense. White socks and sandals don't translate to 'good design sense'.
I don't think I'm unusual in preferring my laptop to be thin and light.
I want my office to be quiet. The loudest thing in the room - by far - should be the occasional purring of the cat.
Fairly cheap home computing was what changed my life.
I'm perfectly happy complaining, because it's cathartic, and I'm perfectly happy arguing with people on the Internet because arguing is my favourite pastime - not programming.
I don't have any authority over Linux other than this notion that I know what I'm doing.
I spend a lot more time than any person should have to talking with lawyers and thinking about intellectual property issues.
I'd much rather have 15 people arguing about something than 15 people splitting into two camps, each side convinced it's right and not talking to the other.
Once you start thinking more about where you want to be than about making the best product, you're screwed.
I don't see myself as a visionary at all.
I see myself as a technical person who chose a great project and a great way of doing that project.
I'm a technical manager, but I don't have to take care of people. I only have to worry about technology itself.
The thing I love about diving is the flowing feeling. I like a sport where the whole point is to move as little as humanly possible so your air supply will last longer. That's my kind of sport. Where the amount of effort spent is absolutely minimal.
In many ways, I am very happy about the whole Linux commercial market because the commercial market is doing all these things that I have absolutely zero interest in doing myself.
There were open source projects and free software before Linux was there. Linux in many ways is one of the more visible and one of the bigger technical projects in this area, and it changed how people looked at it because Linux took both the practical and ideological approach.
I often compare open source to science. To where science took this whole notion of developing ideas in the open and improving on other peoples' ideas and making it into what science is today and the incredible advances that we have had. And I compare that to witchcraft and alchemy, where openness was something you didn't do.
I don't actually go to that many conferences. I do that a couple of times a year. Normally, I am not recognized' people don't throw their panties at me. I'm a perfectly normal person sitting in my den just doing my job.
Software patents, in particular, are very ripe for abuse. The whole system encourages big corporations getting thousands and thousands of patents. Individuals almost never get them.
I think, fundamentally, open source does tend to be more stable software. It's the right way to do things.
There's innovation in Linux. There are some really good technical features that I'm proud of. There are capabilities in Linux that aren't in other operating systems.
To be honest, the fact that people trust you gives you a lot of power over people. Having another person's trust is more powerful than all other management techniques put together.
In open source, we feel strongly that to really do something well, you have to get a lot of people involved.
I've actually found the image of Silicon Valley as a hotbed of money-grubbing tech people to be pretty false, but maybe that's because the people I hang out with are all really engineers.
I'm interested in Linux because of the technology, and Linux wasn't started as any kind of rebellion against the 'evil Microsoft empire.'
To be a nemesis, you have to actively try to destroy something, don't you? Really, I'm not out to destroy Microsoft. That will just be a completely unintentional side effect.
I personally think of Linux development as being pretty non-localized, and I work with all the people entirely over e-mail - even if they happen to be working in the Portland area.
I've felt strongly that the advantage of Linux is that it doesn't have a niche or any special market, but that different individuals and companies end up pushing it in the direction they want, and as such you end up with something that is pretty balanced across the board.
I get the biggest enjoyment from the random and unexpected places. Linux on cellphones or refrigerators, just because it's so not what I envisioned it. Or on supercomputers.
In real open source, you have the right to control your own destiny.
If you start doing things because you hate others and want to screw them over, the end result is bad.
Part of doing Linux was that I had to communicate a lot more instead of just being a geek in front of a computer.
No-one has ever called me a cool dude. I'm somewhere between geek and normal.
Every once in a while an issue comes up where I have to make a statement. I can't totally avoid all political issues, but I try my best to minimize them. When I do make a statement, I try to be fairly neutral.
I lose sleep if I end up feeling bad about something I've said. Usually that happens when I send something out without having read it over a few times, or when I call somebody names.
By staying neutral, I end up being somebody that everybody can trust. Even if they don't always agree with my decisions, they know I'm not working against them.
I think of myself as an engineer, not as a visionary or 'big thinker.' I don't have any lofty goals.
I actually think that I'm a rather optimistic and happy person' it's just that I'm not a very positive person, if you see the difference.
The economics of the security world are all horribly, horribly nasty and are largely based on fear, intimidation and blackmail.
An individual developer like me cares about writing the new code and making it as interesting and efficient as possible. But very few people want to do the testing.
It's a personality trait: from the very beginning, I knew what I was concentrating on. I'm only doing the kernel - I always found everything around it to be completely boring.
What I find most interesting is how people really have taken Linux and used it in ways and attributes and motivations that I never felt.
I'm sitting in my home office wearing a bathrobe. The same way I'm not going to start wearing ties, I'm also not going to buy into the fake politeness, the lying, the office politics and backstabbing, the passive aggressiveness, and the buzzwords.
Of course, I'd also suggest that whoever was the genius who thought it was a good idea to read things ONE F*CKING BYTE AT A TIME with system calls for each byte should be retroactively aborted. Who the f*ck does idiotic things like that? How did they noty die as babies, considering that they were likely too stupid to find a tit to suck on?
Nvidia, fuck you!
kexec? Who the fuck cares? Really?
Fix your f*cking "compliance tool", because it is obviously broken. And fix your approach to kernel programming.
 also claim that Slashdot people usually are smelly and eat their boogers, and have an IQ slightly lower than my daughter's pet hamster (that's 'hamster' without a 'p,' btw, for any slashdot posters out there. Try to follow me, ok?).
 Linus 'bow down before me, you scum' Torvalds